Please answer the below core-java Questions:


What jdk contains or composed of and define each components?
Ans:JDK---->JVM(Java Virtual Machine+ JRE(Java Runtime Environment)

What is IDE?
Ans:Integrated Development Environment.

What are the IDEs available in the market to support java?
Ans: Eclipse, Intellji

Explain the entire java life cycle.
Souce Code written on notepad or eclipse or other IDE---->by code of source code by javac(A.java will be A.class)---->JVM loader load
---->verify the code---->Execute the code by JVM---->Operating System;

what is class?
Ans: A class is a blue print of a object
What is object?
Ans:An Object is an instance of a class

What is the entry point of an application?
public static void main(String[] args)

Why main is static?
This is the entry point of application and there is no need to constructor to traverse main method;

What is the difference between an Interface and Abstract class?
Ans: 1. Interface is not class whether Abstract class is a class
     2. Interface has method definition only no implementation.whether Abstraction has abstract method or non abstract method;
     3. To access Interface , needs implements key word whether abstract class should be extender to other.

Can you make an Object from an Interface and Abstract class ? if not how do you use it ?
Ans: No,by implements and extending to other class and make and object to that class.

what is Access Specifier?
Ans: To get permission of access,eg--public, private, protected

What is OOP ? Define each feature of java OOP
OOP means Object Oriented Programming,
Feature:1. It is object oriented programming
        2. platform independent
        3. Secured designing
        4. Open Source
.
What is API? Name list of API that you have used so far.
Ans: Application Program Interface. 
Java.lang, java.util, java.math

Does java support multiple inheritance?
Ans: Yes 

What is method overloading and when it happens?
Ans:If a class has different method in same name but different signature.

What is method overriding and when it happens?
Ans: When a method is modified or implement from other class which is same name that is called overridding

Explain exceptions in java and how to handle it.
Ans:When Java source code not working the exception is happened, java handle exception by exception handling feature;
    try{}catch(){}

What is static keyword in java? How it has been used in variables and methods ?
Ans:static keyword are used in java mainly for memory menagement;
 private static int VarMemory;
 public static void MethMemory()
 {
 
 }

What is final and how it has been used variables and methods?
final key word is used in java for assigning constant value; it will not be changed.

final pi=3.14;
final MethodExample()
{
}

What is final, finally and finalize?

final can be used to mark a variable "unchangeable"
finally using to try/catch statement and execute code;
finalize is called when an object is garbage collected.

What is a constructor ?
Constructor is used for object initialization;


What is "this" keyword in java ?
When same name one variable is comes as argument then this is used to differentiate instance variable and receiving arguments.

What is "super" keyword in java?
When a class extend or impelments any class to differentiate  variable and method super key word is used.

What is JVM stand for ? 
Java Virtual Machine
What version of java are you using?
java 1.8
What is JAR stand for ?
Java Archive
What is compile time and run time?
the time need to convert source code to machine code is compile time
the time need to execute the program is called run time;
What is heap?
heap is portion of memory where java object are occupied;

How java manage it's memory?
Code segment+stack+heap 